And there's actually another way that
we can make functions in JavaScript,
that we call arrow functions, like our,
I don't know, everybody's favorite archer,
Katniss Everdeen.
[LAUGH] So arrow functions are so named,
because they use this operator or
symbol here that is like,
it's called a fat arrow.
It's the equal sign and
then the greater than sign that sort
of makes a little arrow picture.
And so the fat arrow here lets us
create what we call an arrow function,
which is an unnamed or
anonymous function that usually
doesn't have much code going on.
So this is sort of a quick way to
create small simple little functions.
So for example here, we have a function
that adds two numbers together, that is
similar to our add function that we looked
at in examples earlier, but is anonymous.
It doesn't have a name, and uses
the arrow syntax to declare the function.
If we, If we assign this
to a variable like add,
we essentially get the same thing,
the same behavior as if we had declared
the function with the function keyword and
with the return keyword,
and named the function add.
So these two pieces of
code are equivalent,
we could say So
let's break down what's happening.
So in our function keyword,
function expression here,
non-arrow, we add the name of
the function, the parameters and
params, the curly braces,
the return keyword,
and then the expression whose
value we want returned.
In our arrow function,
we still have all that same stuff,
it's just much shorter because we're
skipping some of these keywords.
So the arrow is sort of doing the heavy
lifting of the function keyword.
The assignment to the variable
add is doing the naming work.
And then the params here to
the left of the arrow function
are declaring the parameters
of the function.
And on the right-hand side of
the arrow is the return value,
which usually in arrow functions
is just one expression.
So in this case, we're returning x + y,
so same in both cases.
And if we wanna prove it,
we can go back to our console,
We can, my goodness,
We can declare our add,
and I hopefully haven't.
We can check that add is a function.
Yes, add is a function, and
we can check that it works as we expect.
Indeed it does, cool?
So this is a handy little syntax for
when we just want a function that returns
a value and doesn't do anything else.
It's not logging anything, it's not doing
any complicated math or manipulations.
We only have one line of code in
the function and it is return statement,
and it is returning a value.
So this is a great little shorthand for
when we have a simple function that
we just want to return a value, cool?
And if this function only
takes in one parameter,
I don't even need to go
to the trouble of typing
parentheses around the input parameter.
That's optional.
I can have parentheses around the input,
but if it's only one thing,
I don't even need to write parentheses.
And as programmers,
we're often very lazy and
we can't bear to spend more
milliseconds writing characters than
we absolutely have to, so
some folks find this handy.
And if we need multiple parameters,
we do have to enclose those parentheses.
Because otherwise, JavaScript wouldn't
know that we're saying, kind of similar to
how we group things when we're
doing math with our math operators.
We're saying, hey,
this is the group of the parameters.
And that's how we tell JavaScript,
everything to the left of the arrow in
these parentheses,
these are the input parameters.
And everything to the right of the arrow,
this is the expression I want you
to return the value of, cool?
Okay, questions so far?
Yeah,
>> You can use the fat arrow with longer
ones too and use parentheses or
curly braces, can't you?
>> What a great point you make.
If we do need to do more stuff in our
function than just return a value,
we actually still can do that with arrow
functions by on the right-hand side,
[LAUGH] on the right-hand side of
the arrow, putting curly braces.
And that sort of gives us what we could
think of as a normal function body.
So if we do wanna do other things,
like maybe console log something,
let's say, before we return the value,
then we can use curly braces on
the right of the arrow to
indicate a longer function body.
But in that case, we need to remember
to return with a return keyword.
So at this point, we're starting to
lose some of the value of switching
to the arrow syntax to save key
strokes if that's what we're after,
if we're code golfers, [LAUGH], but
we still can do this if we want to.
Question.
>> Is there something with this
keyword with arrow functions versus
a normal function?
>> Yes,
there is something with the this keyword.
Yes, so there are other differences
between arrow functions and
normal functions, let's say,
or function keyword functions.
And one of the differences,
so remember earlier,
we mentioned that this keyword
inside of methods, in objects.
And this, as I said,
is a dangerous thing to work with,
because sometimes it does
stuff you don't expect.
And one of the things that's
complicated about this is that it
behaves differently in arrow
functions than in function functions.
So we're not really gonna go into
exactly how it's different and
why and when and how to work with that.
But our good old friend, MDN,
has all [LAUGH] of the information if you
really wanna dig into how the this
keyword behaves differently inside of
the body of an arrow function, versus
the body of a function keyword function.
So there are other differences than just
the syntax between arrow functions and
function keyword functions.
But for the scope of this course and
the in the interest of not giving
ourselves what we could call foot
guns to trip ourselves up on,
we're not gonna get into it.
But it's a good point, and
if it's something you wanna explore more,
check out this,
that page on this that we linked earlier.